what do horror movies and comedies have
in common the two genres might seem
totally different but the reason they're
both so popular is perhaps because of
what they have in common their use of
dramatic irony first let's clarify there
are three types of irony out there
situational irony is when you expect one
thing but get the opposite verbal irony
is when someone says something but truly
means the opposite dramatic irony though
is what we'll be looking at right now
dramatic irony is when the audience
seems to know more about an event a
situation or a conversation than the
characters in the movie on the show or
in the book do the audience is in on a
secret that the characters have missed
this is a great storytelling device that
creates tremendous emotion within that
text think about it for a moment how
does it feel when in a horror film you
know that the scary villain is hiding
behind that door in the darkened room
the music becomes eerie the lighting
creates complete shadows this has to be
bad for the hero of course though that
hero must enter the room to find the
villain you feel tremendous tension and
the suspense of knowing that someone
will jump out and be scary but you just
don't know when that tension is dramatic
irony you know something more than the
characters in the film
now take the typical comedy there will
probably be some type of
misunderstanding again we know more of
what is going on than the characters do
picture two characters making a plan for
a birthday surprise for their roommate
while that roommate overhears the entire
conversation from the hallway from their
confusion and misunderstanding occur and
attention builds but this isn't the same
tension as the horror film since it is
probably pretty funny as a character try
to figure out the who's and the what's
but it serves as a great example of the
tension and suspense of dramatic irony
this tension or suspense in both genres
drives the story and keeps the plot
progressing the audience wants know
needs to see the tension of the dramatic
irony broken either by the scary person
jumping out of
the shadows or by someone finally
revealing someone's true identity and
clearing up the confusion so when you
feel like you are in on a secret that is
dramatic irony a hallmark of all the
great writers from Shakespeare to
Hitchcock